CS40L20/CS40L25/CS40L25A/CS40L25B Boosted Haptics Driver

Required properties:

  - compatible : One of "cirrus,cs40l20", "cirrus,cs40l25", "cirrus,cs40l25a"
    or "cirrus,cs40l25b".

  - reg : The I2C slave address of the device.

  - VA-supply, VP-supply : Regulators for the device's VA and VP supplies,
    respectively. See the following:
    Documentation/devicetree/bindings/regulator/regulator.txt

  - cirrus,boost-ind-nanohenry : Boost inductor value, expressed in nH. Valid
    values include 1000, 1200, 1500 and 2200.

  - cirrus,boost-cap-microfarad : Total equivalent boost capacitance on the VBST
    and VAMP pins, derated at 11 volts DC (or the voltage specified by the
    boost-ctl-millivolt property, if present). The value must be rounded to the
    nearest integer and expressed in uF.

  - cirrus,boost-ipk-milliamp : Boost inductor peak current, expressed in mA.
    Valid values range from 1600 to 4500 (inclusive) in steps of 50.

Optional properties:

  - reset-gpios : GPIO used for resetting the device.

  - interrupt-parent : Single phandle representing the interrupt controller to
    which the /ALERT pin is connected (silicon revision B1 only). Auxiliary
    Serial Port (ASP) support (CS40L25A only) requires the /ALERT pin to be
    used.

  - interrupts : interrupt specifiers for the device (silicon revision B1 only).
    See the following:
    Documentation/devicetree/bindings/interrupt-controller/interrupts.txt

  - cirrus,refclk-gpio2 : Boolean for configuring the device to expect its
    32.768-kHz reference clock on the REFCLK/GPIO2 pin. If this property is
    omitted, the device expects its 32.768-kHz reference clock on the
    ASP_BCLK/REFCLK pin. This property is ignored for silicon revision B1 as
    reference clock selection is configured automatically in that case.

  - cirrus,f0-default : Default LRA resonant frequency (f0), expressed as
    follows: cirrus,f0-default = f0 (Hz) * 2^14. This value represents the
    frequency used during playback of PWLE segments specified with frequency
    equal to f0; it also serves as the unit-specific f0 input to the click
    compensation algorithm. It can be overwritten at a later time by writing
    to the f0_stored sysfs control.

    If this value is omitted or specified as zero in the presence of silicon
    revisions A0 or B0, the measurement recorded in the f0_measured sysfs
    control is used. In that case, if LRA diagnostics has not been administered
    and f0_measured is uninitialized, 2621440 (160 Hz) is used.

    If this value is omitted or specified as zero in the presence of silicon
    revision B1, 2621440 (160 Hz) is used irrespective of the measurement
    recorded in the f0_measured sysfs control.

  - cirrus,f0-min : Minimum LRA resonant frequency (f0) that may be written to
    the f0_stored sysfs control, expressed using the same numerical format as
    cirrus,f0-default. If this value is omitted or specified as zero, no lower-
    bound validation is performed.

  - cirrus,f0-max : Maximum LRA resonant frequency (f0) that may be written to
    the f0_stored sysfs control, expressed using the same numerical format as
    cirrus,f0-default. If this value is omitted or specified as zero, no upper-
    bound validation is performed.

  - cirrus,redc-default : Default LRA series resistance (ReDC), expressed as
    follows: cirrus,redc-default = ReDC (ohms) / 5.857 * 2^17. This value
    represents the unit-specific ReDC input to the click compensation algorithm.
    It can be overwritten at a later time by writing to the redc_stored sysfs
    control.

    If this value is omitted or specified as zero in the presence of silicon
    revisions A0 or B0, the measurement recorded in the redc_measured sysfs
    control is used. In that case, if LRA diagnostics has not been administered
    and redc_measured is uninitialized, 340787 (15.2 ohms) is used.

    If this value is omitted or specified as zero in the presence of silicon
    revision B1, 340787 (15.2 ohms) is used irrespective of the measurement
    recorded in the redc_measured sysfs control.

  - cirrus,redc-min : Minimum LRA series resistance (ReDC) that may be written
    to the redc_stored sysfs control, expressed using the same numerical format
    as cirrus,redc-default. If this value is omitted or specified as zero, no
    lower-bound validation is performed.

  - cirrus,redc-max : Maximum LRA series resistance (ReDC) that may be written
    to the redc_stored sysfs control, expressed using the same numerical format
    as cirrus,redc-default. If this value is omitted or specified as zero, no
    upper-bound validation is performed.

  - cirrus,q-default : Default LRA Q factor (silicon revision B1 only),
    expressed as follows: cirrus,q-default = Q * 2^16. This value represents
    the unit-specific Q factor used to select the correct sub-waveform for
    Q-dependent wavetable indexes. It can be overwritten at a later time by
    writing to the q_stored sysfs control. If this value is omitted or specified
    as zero, a default value of 27 is used.

  - cirrus,q-min : Minimum LRA Q factor that may be written to the q_stored
    sysfs control (silicon revision B1 only), expressed using the same numerical
    format as cirrus,q-default. If this value is omitted or specified as zero,
    no lower-bound validation is performed.

  - cirrus,q-max : Maximum LRA Q factor that may be written to the q_stored
    sysfs control (silicon revision B1 only), expressed using the same numerical
    format as cirrus,q-default. If this value is omitted or specified as zero,
    no upper-bound validation is performed.

  - cirrus,redc-comp-disable : Boolean for disabling ReDC-based click
    compensation (silicon revision B1 only). If this property is omitted, ReDC-
    based click compensation remains enabled in the absence of the comp-disable
    property. ReDC-based click compensation can be enabled or disabled at a
    later time by writing 1 or 0 to the redc_comp_enable sysfs control,
    respectively. This property does not affect f0-based click compensation and
    its effect is overridden in the presence of the comp-disable property.

  - cirrus,comp-disable : Boolean for disabling both f0-based and ReDC-based
    click compensation. If this property is omitted, f0-based click compensation
    remains enabled and ReDC-based click compensation is enabled or disabled as
    a function of the redc-comp-disable property. Both f0-based and ReDC-based
    click compensation can be enabled or disabled at a later time by writing 1
    or 0 to the comp_enable sysfs control, respectively.

  - cirrus,gpio1-rise-index : Specifies the wavetable index mapped to GPIO1
    rising edges. If this value is omitted, specified as zero or exceeds the
    maximum available index in the wavetable, GPIO1 rising edges are mapped to
    index 1.

  - cirrus,gpio1-fall-index : Specifies the wavetable index mapped to GPIO1
    falling edges. If this value is omitted, specified as zero or exceeds the
    maximum available index in the wavetable, GPIO1 falling edges are mapped to
    index 2.

  - cirrus,gpio1-fall-timeout : Specifies the number of 48-kHz periods for
    which the device remains in the active state in search of a GPIO1 falling
    edge, following a GPIO1 rising edge (the latter of which renders the device
    active). If a GPIO1 falling edge does not arrive within this timeout, the
    device automatically returns to the standby state and the subsequent GPIO1
    falling edge is ignored. If this value is omitted or exceeds the maximum
    timeout (8388607) then a default of 240000 is assumed (corresponding to
    240000 / 48000 = 5 seconds). If this value is specified as zero, the timeout
    is effectively disabled. In the case of the CS40L25B, the timeout specified
    for GPIO1 applies to GPIO2, GPIO3 and GPIO4.

  - cirrus,gpio2-rise-index : Specifies the wavetable index mapped to GPIO2
    rising edges. If this value is omitted, specified as zero or exceeds the
    maximum available index in the wavetable, GPIO2 rising edges are mapped to
    index 1. Available for CS40L25B only.

  - cirrus,gpio2-fall-index : Specifies the wavetable index mapped to GPIO2
    falling edges. If this value is omitted, specified as zero or exceeds the
    maximum available index in the wavetable, GPIO2 falling edges are mapped to
    index 2. Available for CS40L25B only.

  - cirrus,gpio3-rise-index : Specifies the wavetable index mapped to GPIO3
    rising edges. If this value is omitted, specified as zero or exceeds the
    maximum available index in the wavetable, GPIO3 rising edges are mapped to
    index 1. Available for CS40L25B only.

  - cirrus,gpio3-fall-index : Specifies the wavetable index mapped to GPIO3
    falling edges. If this value is omitted, specified as zero or exceeds the
    maximum available index in the wavetable, GPIO3 falling edges are mapped to
    index 2. Available for CS40L25B only.

  - cirrus,gpio4-rise-index : Specifies the wavetable index mapped to GPIO4
    rising edges. If this value is omitted, specified as zero or exceeds the
    maximum available index in the wavetable, GPIO4 rising edges are mapped to
    index 1. Available for CS40L25B only.

  - cirrus,gpio4-fall-index : Specifies the wavetable index mapped to GPIO4
    falling edges. If this value is omitted, specified as zero or exceeds the
    maximum available index in the wavetable, GPIO4 falling edges are mapped to
    index 2. Available for CS40L25B only.

  - cirrus,gpio1-mode : Specifies the operating mode of the GPIO1 pin, equal to
    one of the following.

    0 = enabled by default
    1 = disabled by default
    2 = disabled by default, but automatically enabled and disabled upon suspend
        and resume, respectively

    If this value is omitted or given an invalid value, mode 0 (enabled by
    default) is assumed. Regardless of mode, the GPIO1 pin can be enabled or
    disabled at will from user space using the gpio1_enable sysfs control. In
    the case of the CS40L25B, the behavior of GPIO2, GPIO3 and GPIO4 follow that
    which is specified for GPIO1.

  - cirrus,hiber-enable : Boolean for instructing the device to enter and exit
    hibernation mode upon suspend and resume, respectively. Hibernation mode is
    supported by silicon revision B1 only. If this property is omitted, the
    device remains in standby and automatic entry into hibernation mode is
    effectively disabled.

  - cirrus,asp-bclk-freq-hz : Specifies the frequency (in Hz) of the ASP_BCLK
    pin (CS40L25A only). If this value is omitted, ASP support is disabled.

  - cirrus,asp-bclk-inv : Boolean to specify that the ASP_BCLK pin is inverted
    relative to that which is defined for cirrus,asp-fmt (CS40L25A only).

  - cirrus,asp-fsync-inv : Boolean to specify that the ASP_FSYNC pin is inverted
    relative to that which is defined for cirrus,asp-fmt (CS40L25A only).

  - cirrus,asp-fmt : Specifies the interface format of the ASP, equal to one of
    the following (refer to the device's data sheet for more information).

    0 = TDM 1
    1 = Reserved
    2 = I2S
    3 = Reserved
    4 = TDM 1.5

    If this value is omitted, I2S is assumed.

  - cirrus,asp-slot-num : ASP slot number (CS40L25A only) relative to the start
    of the frame (0 through 63). If this value is omitted, slot 0 is assumed.

  - cirrus,asp-slot-width : ASP slot width (CS40L25A only), specified in bits
    (12 through 128). If this value is omitted, ASP support is disabled.

  - cirrus,asp-samp-width : ASP sample width (CS40L25A only), specified in bits
    (12 through 24). If this value is omitted, ASP support is disabled.

  - cirrus,asp-timeout : Specifies the minimum number of milliseconds to pause
    ASP playback following haptic playback interruption (CS40L25A only). If this
    value is omitted or exceeds the maximum permitted delay (10 seconds), the
    timeout is effectively disabled.

  - cirrus,amp-gnd-stby : Boolean to specify that the OUT+ and OUT- pins are to
    remain grounded during the standby state. In this case, the latency of I2C-
    triggered playback is increased by that of a single I2C write transaction
    and GPIO-triggered playback is unavailable.

    If this property is omitted or the device's interrupt (/ALERT) pin is not
    available, the OUT+ and OUT- pins remain high-impedance during the standby
    state (default case) and neither I2C-triggered nor GPIO-triggered playback
    are affected.

  - cirrus,boost-ctl-millivolt : Maximum target voltage to which the class H
    algorithm may increase the VBST supply, expressed in mV. Valid values range
    from 2550 to 11000 (inclusive) in steps of 50. If this value is specified as
    zero or VP rises above this value, VBST is bypassed to VP. If this value is
    omitted, the maximum target voltage remains at 11 V.

  - cirrus,boost-ovp-millivolt : Nominal VBST overvoltage protection threshold,
    expressed in mV. Valid values range from 9000 to 12875 (inclusive) in steps
    of 125. If this value is omitted, the threshold remains at 12 V.

  - cirrus,vpbr-enable : Boolean for enabling VP brownout prevention. If this
    property is omitted, VP brownout prevention remains disabled.

  - cirrus,vpbr-thld1-millivolt : Initial VP brownout prevention threshold,
    expressed in mV. Valid values range from 2497 to 3874 (inclusive). The value
    written to the device is quantized in steps of approximately 48 mV. If this
    value is omitted, the threshold remains at 2.639 V.

  - cirrus,vbbr-enable : Boolean for enabling VBST brownout prevention. If this
    property is omitted, VBST brownout prevention remains disabled.

  - cirrus,vbbr-thld1-millivolt : Initial VBST brownout prevention threshold,
    expressed in mV. Valid values range from 109 to 3445 (inclusive). The value
    written to the device is quantized in steps of approximately 55 mV. If this
    value is omitted, the threshold remains at 0.273 V. This threshold is
    interpreted as the difference between the target VBST level and the actual
    measured VBST level.

  - cirrus,fw-id-remap : Alternative firmware build ID (silicon revision B1
    only). If this value is omitted, an ID of 0x1400C3 (standard issue firmware)
    is assumed.

  - cirrus,auto-recovery : Boolean for enabling auto-recovery mode, wherein the
    driver checks for inadvertent device reset prior to administering I2C-
    triggered playback. If the driver determines the device's register map has
    been compromised, the driver issues a full device reset and restores the
    device to its previous state.

    Auto-recovery mode increases the latency of I2C-triggered playback by that
    of a single I2C read transaction. If this property is omitted, auto-recovery
    mode remains disabled and I2C-triggered playback is unaffected.

Examples:

  cs40l20: cs40l20@43 {
    compatible = "cirrus,cs40l20";
    reg = <0x43>;
    reset-gpios = <&gpio0 54 0>;
    VA-supply = <&dummy_vreg>;
    VP-supply = <&dummy_vreg>;
    cirrus,boost-ind-nanohenry = <1000>;
    cirrus,boost-cap-microfarad = <4>;
    cirrus,boost-ipk-milliamp = <4500>;
    cirrus,refclk-gpio2;
  };

  cs40l25a: cs40l25a@43 {
    compatible = "cirrus,cs40l25a";
    reg = <0x43>;
    reset-gpios = <&gpio0 54 0>;
    interrupt-parent = <&gpio0>;
    interrupts = <55 8>;
    VA-supply = <&dummy_vreg>;
    VP-supply = <&dummy_vreg>;
    cirrus,boost-ind-nanohenry = <1000>;
    cirrus,boost-cap-microfarad = <4>;
    cirrus,boost-ipk-milliamp = <4500>;
    cirrus,asp-bclk-freq-hz = <1536000>;
    cirrus,asp-slot-width = <16>;
    cirrus,asp-samp-width = <16>;
  };
